---
tags:
  - S2
  - scla102
  - assignment
  - midterms
Type: Assignment
Date: 2025-03-11
Class: "[[SCLA 10200]]"
---
Throughout this semester, we have encountered numerous reactions to violence. World War I soldier Paul Baulmer cannot stop the shells from falling, so he hardens himself to survive another day in the trenches. 20 years later in WWII, Eli Wiesel questions his formerly unwavering faith in God as he's subjected to witness the cruelty of the Nazis. Gandhi, on the other hand, in the face of oppression, vows to resist through nonviolent means and civil disobedience. Today, I'd like to explore how circumstances dictated Paul and Elie's forced acceptance of war's cruelty, while Gandhi, free from those same constraints, channeled resistance through noncooperation.

First I would like to talk about Paul, a German teen who enlisted at the guidance of his teachers and elders. Paul quickly learns that the patriotic rhetoric he once believed is no match for endless shellfire, constant fear, and the almost daily sight of friends dying. His only choice is to grow numb: shut down emotionally in order to keep going from one moment to the next. Paul's acceptance is a form of self-preservation: an unspoken agreement that, in order to survive the war, he must disconnect himself from its horrors. We see Paul's acceptance of the violence and his emotional numbness most clearly when he returns home temporarily from the war, unable to connect with his family, finding his books and childhood objects "alien" as his pre-war identity feels so distant that he cannot reconnect with it. But why? Why did his acceptance of the war completely change his identity? Well, among comrades, Paul doesn't need to explain his nightmares as they all live the same horror and understand each other without words. Going home, on the other hand, forces him to face family members who can't comprehend what he's seen, further isolating him from the rest of his family.

Yet Paul isn't the only one whose circumstances force him into acceptance as Elie Wiesel faces a different but equally devastating reality in Nazi concentration camps. Similar to how Paul's acceptance turned him into a hopeless man numb of emotion, Elie's acceptance forces him to question his lifelong faith in God. Elie does not let go of his faith lightly; the sheer scale of suffering tears it from him as he witnesses horrifying act after horrifying act. The first example of Elie questioning his faith occurs when he asks himself "Where is God?" after the hanging of a child, to which he answers "he is hanging here, on the gallows", signifying that in Elie's mind, God has already left him. Unlike before the war, Elie  sees survival as purely physical and mechanical rather than a spiritual experience guided by a benevolent path. Thus, we see another similarity in Paul and Elie's story, as both men must figure out who they really are, with the violence they experienced having crushed any notion of identity the had before war.

While Paul and Elie struggle with a need to accept horrific circumstances, Gandhi stands out as a figure who responds to oppressive force by resisting it nonviolently. Rather than resigning himself to the cruel British government, he embarks on a campaign of organized cooperation. Following the events of Jallianwala Bagh, in which over 400 Hindus were massacred at the hands of the British government, Gandhi had a choice: he could accept British oppression as the new norm or fight back. Gandhi, enlisting the use of "**Satyagraha**" (truth force - resist oppression w/o harm), peacefully protested against the British with tens of thousands of other Hindus in organized protests and numerous boycotts against British products. Where Elie and Paul had no agency in the face of relentless violence, Gandhi's deliberate choice to refuse cooperation with an oppressive government reveals another way to confront brutality. By leading marches, boycotts, and civil disobedience, Gandhi transformed despair into organized defiance - turning ordinary acts like abstaining from British goods into powerful declaration of independence.

In these stories, survival looks very different for each person. While Paul and Elie must endure or be destroyed, Gandhi channels hardship into deliberate, nonviolent resistance. Their experiences reveal that when confronted with extreme violence, acceptance and resistance emerge from the harsh realities each must face, yet both can reshape one’s identity and destiny.