---
tags:
  - etc
  - personal
Type: Personal
Date: 2025-02-08
---
Around 5:00PM I ingested ~3.6-8g of Albino Penis Envy with my two roomates with very low expectations due to the fact that I take 20mg of Prozac (fluoxotine) daily and had tripped the day before (<1.25g). This was my first psychadelic experience, something I had been looking forward to for a really really long time but was very apprehensive due to possible interactions with my medication, but after reading many articles I determined the reward was greater than the risk. Around 30-40 minutes after eating the shrooms we took a short walk around our neighborhood, not feeling anything but a very mild head high, possibly placebo. After our walk (approx. 1 hour after ingestion), me and my friend took a few bong rips and watched a few episodes of family guy. My other roomate was in our room meditating, slowly feeling the effects, and i joined him. My vision slowly became impaired as the corners where the walls meet became super blurry and began moving around. Not much thinking was going on, just waiting for the mushrooms to kick in more, which happened around the 2-hour mark. I started to see zig-zagging patterns on the walls close to me and began feeling a wonderful body high. I began placing sticky notes all over the wall next to my bed and just contorting my body weirdly, it felt great. We started to play music, some classical like Philip Glass, then moved onto ambient Aphex Twin and Detroit rap. I was still in my bed at this point and got up to go over to my desk where I began drawing, trying to trace the geometric patterns I caught in my vision and express the way my mind felt, which was like a bunch of super small honeycombs. Then we took a couple of dabs to amplify the visuals and walked to Papa Johns to got a pizza. so good. after this, me and my roomates continued to talk for a while and smoke some more weed, which we couldn't stop looking at - the patterns in it were so pretty. The shrooms began to wear off around 5 hours into the experience where we all made our way back to our beds and went to sleep. I'm writing this now instead of watching the chemistry lectures I need to catch up on. Feeling good today, really excited to take shrooms again - i plan on going for a much higher dose (4.5-6g (hopefully ABE)) in around 4-6 weeks from now. me and my friends went through many phases throughout the night where we would at times all get a bunch of energy and talk, draw, listen to music, but there were other times where the room was silent, each of us in our own heads, thinking. Initially when I began to lay down I wasn't thinking much at all, unlike my other roomate Luigi who was thinking a lot. Later on in the night, around hour 3 or 4, I began to think a lot about everything, my future, while Luigi's thoughts were empty.

---

#### Takeaways
- Life has 2 modes, on and off, yes and no. While there exists a wide range of in between answers, when it comes to you personally, there is only one mode.